=head1 NAME

xmlsec-templatesign - Sign a template XML signature file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xmlsec-templatesign> [B<-s> I<distinguished-name>] [B<-h> I<string>] [B<-c>]
    (B<-d> | B<-e> | B<-r>) I<private-key> I<password> I<input>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xmlsec-templatesign> signs a template XML signature file using the
Apache XML Security for C++ library.  The resulting signed file is printed
to standard output.  The signing key is specified with one of B<-d> (for a
DSA key), B<-e> (for an EC key), or B<-r> (for an RSA key).  The key must
be stored in a PEM-encoded file, and the password for that file must be
given on the command line.

=head1 OPTIONS

Note that each option must be given as a separate argument.

=over 4

=item B<--dsakey>, B<-d>

The provided I<private-key> file is a PEM-encoded DSA private key.

=item B<--eckey>, B<-e>

The provided I<private-key> file is a PEM-encoded EC private key.

=item B<--rsakey>, B<-r>

The provided I<private-key> file is a PEM-encoded RSA private key.

=item B<--clearkeys>, B<-c>

Clear out any current KeyInfo elements in the file.

=item B<--hmackey> I<string>, B<-h> I<string>

Use the HMAC key specified by I<string>.

=item B<--x509subjectname> I<name>, B<-s> I<name>

The provided I<name> will be set as SubjectName in X.509.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian.

=head1 MANUAL LICENSE

The authors hereby relinquish any claim to any copyright that they may
have in this work, whether granted under contract or by operation of law
or international treaty, and hereby commit to the public, at large, that
they shall not, at any time in the future, seek to enforce any copyright
in this work against any person or entity, or prevent any person or entity
from copying, publishing, distributing or creating derivative works of
this work.

=cut
