=head1 NAME

xmlsec-xklient - Client for an XKMS service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xmlsec-xklient> [B<-t>] msgdump [I<options>] I<filename>

B<xmlsec-xklient> [B<-t>] msgcreate LocateRequest [I<options>]

B<xmlsec-xklient> [B<-t>] dorequest [I<options>] I<type> [I<options>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xmlsec-xklient> is a general client for web services that follows the
XML Key Management Specification (XKMS).  It supports three basic
operations:

=over 4

=item msgdump

Given an input file name containing an XKMS message, dump that message to
standard output.

=item msgcreate

Create an XKMS message and print the resulting message to standard output.
The only supported message type to create is C<LocateRequest> or C<lr>.

=item dorequest

Send an XKMS request.  The request type is one of:

    CompoundRequest (cr)
    LocateRequest   (lr)
    ValidateRequest (vr)
    PendingRequest  (pr)
    RegisterRequest (rr)
    ReissueRequest  (ir)
    RecoverRequest  (or)
    RevokeRequest   (er)

=back

Each of these three operations have their own special command-line options
that may be given after the operation, and each of the XKMS request types
have their own set of options to specify what goes into the request.  Each
operation supports the B<-h> or B<--help> flag to print out usage for that
particular operation and, in the case of C<dorequest>, that operation and
request type.

All the specific per-operation options are not (yet) documented in this
manual page.  Use the B<-h> or B<--help> option to get more usage
information for the operation that you want to perform.

=head1 OPTIONS

This section only documents the general options that are supported before
the operation type.

=over 4

=item B<--text>, B<-t>

Print out any created XML when performing any of the other operations.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian.

=head1 MANUAL LICENSE

The authors hereby relinquish any claim to any copyright that they may
have in this work, whether granted under contract or by operation of law
or international treaty, and hereby commit to the public, at large, that
they shall not, at any time in the future, seek to enforce any copyright
in this work against any person or entity, or prevent any person or entity
from copying, publishing, distributing or creating derivative works of
this work.

=cut
