=head1 NAME

xmlsec-c14n - Canonicalize an XML file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xmlsec-c14n> [B<-n>] [B<-x>] [B<-1.1>] [B<-id> I<id>] I<input>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xmlsec-c14n> canonicalizes an XML document following the W3C Canonical
XML Recommendation.  By default, it uses version 1.0, but it can use
version 1.1 with the B<-1.1> flag and Exclusive XML Canonicalization 1.0
with the B<-x> flag.

The source XML document is read from the provided I<input> file, and the
canonicalized version is written to standard output.

=head1 OPTIONS

Note that each option must be given as a separate argument.

=over 4

=item B<-n>

Do not include XML comments in the output.

=item B<-x>

Canonicalize to the Exclusive XML Canonicalization 1.0 Recommendation
instead of the default.

=item B<-1.1>

Canonicalizae to the Canonical XML 1.1 Recommendation instead of the
default.

=item B<-id> I<id>

Rather than canonicalizing the entire input document, canonicalize and
output only the subtree rooted at the node identified by I<id>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian.

=head1 MANUAL LICENSE

The authors hereby relinquish any claim to any copyright that they may
have in this work, whether granted under contract or by operation of law
or international treaty, and hereby commit to the public, at large, that
they shall not, at any time in the future, seek to enforce any copyright
in this work against any person or entity, or prevent any person or entity
from copying, publishing, distributing or creating derivative works of
this work.

=cut
