=head1 NAME

xmlsec-txfmout - Output XML transforms used when validating a signature

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xmlsec-txfmout> [B<-s>] [B<-o>] [B<-r> [I<n>]] [B<-n>] I<input>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xmlsec-txfmout> outputs the results of various transforms that are used
when verifying signatures on an XML document.  By default, the output is
sent to standard output.

=head1 OPTIONS

Note that each option must be given as a separate argument.

=over 4

=item B<--newfiles>, B<-n>

Create a new output file for each reference or SignedInfo.  This should be
specified in conjunction with B<-o>.  The file names will be formed by
appending C<.> and a number.

=item B<--out> I<file>, B<-o> I<file>

Instead of printing the transform results to standard output, write them
to the specified file.

=item B<--references> [I<num>], B<-r> [I<num>]

Output only references.  If I<num> is given, it specifies a single
numbered reference to output.

=item B<--signedinfo>, B<-s>

Output canonicalized SignedInfo only.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian.

=head1 MANUAL LICENSE

The authors hereby relinquish any claim to any copyright that they may
have in this work, whether granted under contract or by operation of law
or international treaty, and hereby commit to the public, at large, that
they shall not, at any time in the future, seek to enforce any copyright
in this work against any person or entity, or prevent any person or entity
from copying, publishing, distributing or creating derivative works of
this work.

=cut
