=head1 NAME

xmlsec-checksig - Check a signature embedded in an XML file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xmlsec-checksig> [B<-s>] [B<-h> I<string>] [B<-x>] [B<-d> I<ns-uri> I<name>]
    [B<-i>] [B<--id> I<name>] I<input>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xmlsec-checksig> checks a digital signature embedded in an XML file
using the Apache XML Security for C++ library.  It reads the XML document
to check from the provided I<input> file and expects the signature to
follow the XML Digital Signature and Encryption specifications.

=head1 OPTIONS

Note that each option must be given as a separate argument.

=over 4

=item B<--hmackey> I<string>, B<-h> I<string>

Use the HMAC key specified by I<string>.

=item B<--id> I<name>

Use the attribute id with name I<name>.  To also specify the namespace,
use B<--idns> instead.

=item B<--idns> I<ns-uri> I<name>, B<-d> I<ns-uri> I<name>

Use the attribute id specified by the namespace URI I<ns-uri> and the name
I<name>.

=item B<--interop>, B<-i>

Use the interop resolver for the Baltimore interop examples.

=item B<--skiprefs>, B<-s>

Skip checking references and only check the signature.

=item B<--xsecresolver>, B<-x>

Use the Apache XML Security for C++ test XMLDSig URI resolver.

=back

=head1 RETURN STATUS

B<xmlsec-checksig> exits with status 0 if the signature is valid and with
status 1 if the signature is not valid.  If it cannot process the input
file for some reason, it exits with status 2.

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian.

=head1 MANUAL LICENSE

The authors hereby relinquish any claim to any copyright that they may
have in this work, whether granted under contract or by operation of law
or international treaty, and hereby commit to the public, at large, that
they shall not, at any time in the future, seek to enforce any copyright
in this work against any person or entity, or prevent any person or entity
from copying, publishing, distributing or creating derivative works of
this work.

=cut
