=head1 NAME

xmlsec-xtest - Perform run-time tests of the XML Security library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xmlsec-xtest> [B<--help>] [B<-p>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xmlsec-xtest> performs a set of run-time tests against the Apache XML
Security for C++ library.  This is rarely of interest to a user of the
library, but it can be used as a sanity check to ensure that the library
is working properly.

=head1 OPTIONS

Note that the single-character options must still occur as separate
options on the command line.  In other words, B<-pe> to specify both the
B<-p> and B<-e> options is not allowed.

=over 4

=item B<--help>

Print out usage information and exit.

=item B<--print-docs>, B<-p>

Print out the test documents while running each test.

=item B<--encryption-only>, B<-e>

=item B<--encryption-unit-only>, B<-u>

=item B<--signature-only>, B<-s>

=item B<--signature-unit-only>, B<-t>

=item B<--xkms-only>, B<-x>

By default, B<xmlsec-xtest> runs all of the tests.  One of these options
may be specified to run only that set of tests.  All of these options are
mutually exclusive; at most one of them should be specified.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Russ Allbery for Debian.

=head1 MANUAL LICENSE

The authors hereby relinquish any claim to any copyright that they may
have in this work, whether granted under contract or by operation of law
or international treaty, and hereby commit to the public, at large, that
they shall not, at any time in the future, seek to enforce any copyright
in this work against any person or entity, or prevent any person or entity
from copying, publishing, distributing or creating derivative works of
this work.

=cut
